Dear brothers and sisters:
Welcome to this 2021 “Powerful by Faith!”
Convention of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
And let me begin by extending to all of you
the warm Christian love and greetings
from the Governing Body
and the United States Bethel family.
And let me assure you
that we continue to pray on your behalf.
“Powerful by Faith!”
—what a motivating
and what an encouraging theme
for this convention!
What are we going to learn?
Well, we’re going to concentrate
on answering three questions
at this convention.
The first one is, What is faith?
The second one is, What can faith do for us?
And the third is, How can we build our faith?
Well, it’s appropriate, since this is
the introduction to the convention,
for us to spend some time
talking about each one of those questions.
So let’s begin with that first question:
What is faith?
Now, brothers and sisters, we know
that faith is something that is produced
in us by God’s holy spirit.
In fact, Galatians chapter 5 says
that faith is a part
of the fruitage of God’s holy spirit.
So if we have God’s spirit,
we will have faith.
But what exactly is faith?
Well, let’s go in our Bibles.
Let’s see the definition the Bible gives
at Hebrews 11:1.
Would you read it with me?
Hebrews 11:1 says:
“Faith is the assured expectation
of what is hoped for,
“the evident demonstration of realities
that are not seen.”
Now, you’ll notice that the definition
of faith is given in two parts.
What is the first part?
Well, first, it says:
“Faith is the assured expectation
of what is hoped for.”
Well, what does that mean?
Well, faith is the conviction
that we will have the things
that we hope for.
Maybe we could illustrate it this way:
You know, it’s like the conviction we have
when we go to bed at night
—that the sun is going to rise
in the morning.
It’s the conviction that the farmer has
when he sows his seed
—that those seeds are going to sprout
and they’re going to grow.
Faith makes future things promised by God
as real as if we already have them now.
That means that the person with faith
firmly believes that everything
that Jehovah says is true
and that all of the promises
that Jehovah has made
are going to come to reality.
But what’s the second part
of that definition?
Faith is “the evident demonstration
of realities that are not seen.”
Hmm.
What does that mean?
Well, maybe we could illustrate it
with something simple like this cell phone.
Now, if you have a cell phone
and you have cell phone service,
then wherever you may be on the earth,
I could call you right now.
But now, there are no wires
attached to this phone.
How could that possibly work?
Well, of course, we know that this technology
relies on radio waves.
Now, you and I can’t see radio waves,
but every time we make a call
on our cell phones,
we see the evidence,
or the “evident demonstration,”
that radio waves are real,
even though we cannot see them.
What’s the point?
If we really have faith,
it means that we can believe in something
that is verified by strong evidence,
even though it is unseen.
Well, that means that faith
as described in the Bible
is not unquestioning; it is not irrational;
it is not foolish or gullible;
it’s not being quick to believe something
with little or no evidence.
True faith comes
from a careful analysis and study
of God’s precious Word, the Bible.
The accurate knowledge
that we gain from God’s Word
helps us to build our faith.
It’s there in the Bible
that we learn about God,
we learn about his name,
we learn about his promises
that have already come true,
and we learn about promises that he’s made
—exciting promises for our future.
But faith is also built and established
by something else.
What is that?
Well, it’s creation.
When we look up into the night sky
and we see the exact order in the universe,
how does it make us feel?
Or when we look at the human brain
and its complexity
or the complexity of the human eye,
we have to come to the conclusion
that there must be a Designer.
There is strong evidence
for an intelligent Creator.
Well, now,
why is it so important that you and I
grow in our faith and develop faith?
Well, the Bible answers that question too.
Would you look with me at Hebrews 11:6?
At Hebrews 11:6, it says:
“Moreover, without faith it is impossible
“[isn’t that interesting? it is impossible]
“to please God well,
“for whoever approaches God
must believe that he is
and that he becomes the rewarder
of those earnestly seeking him.”
Well, did you see the point?
“Without faith it is impossible
to please God.”
So faith is essential
if we are going to please God
and have his blessing.
Well, we’ve talked quite a bit
about what faith is,
but here are two things that faith is not.
Faith is not simply believing
that God exists,
because the Bible says
that even ‘the demons believe in God,
but they shudder.’
It involves coming to know Jehovah,
coming to trust him,
forming an unbreakable friendship with him,
so that Jehovah is so real to us
that we sense his love
and sense his approval
in our day-to-day life.
What’s the other thing that faith is not?
Faith is not simply hoping for something.
The Bible uses the example of Abraham.
Now, Abraham had
the demonstration of the things
that he hoped for;
he had evidence that God was real.
But how did that affect Abraham?
What was the result?
Let’s read together this important scripture
—Romans 4:20.
At Romans 4:20, it says:
“But because of the promise of God,
“he [that is, Abraham]
“did not waver in a lack of faith;
“but [notice, what did he do?]
“he became powerful by his faith,
giving God glory.”
You see, Abraham was moved;
he was motivated; he was empowered.
“He became powerful by his faith.”
Well, how appropriately, then,
that Romans 4:20 has been chosen
as the theme text for this convention.
Now, in a moment, we are going to talk
about the power of faith,
but before we do,
we have a wonderful treat now.
Please give your attention
to a recorded message
from our dear Brother Geoffrey Jackson
of the Governing Body,
as he explains to us
how important faith is for Christians today.
Welcome to the “Powerful by Faith!”
Convention of Jehovah’s Witnesses!
You’ll certainly be happy
that you made the effort to attend
all three days of this convention.
The expression “powerful by faith”
is drawn from the apostle Paul’s words
at Romans 4:20.
Why did the Governing Body choose faith
as the theme for this year’s convention?
Because we need strong faith
to deal successfully with our present trials
and with those we’ll face in the near future.
At Matthew 17:20,
Jesus assured his disciples:
“If you have faith
“the size of a mustard grain,
“you will say to this mountain,
“‘Move from here to there,’ and it will move,
and nothing will be impossible for you.”
Yes, faith enables us
to do things we could never imagine
doing on our own.
For Christians, faith is essential.
In fact, God commands us to have faith.
At 1 John 3:23, we read:
“Indeed, this is his commandment:
“that we have faith
“in the name of his Son Jesus Christ
“and love one another,
just as he gave us a commandment.”
And Hebrews 11:6 tells us:
“Without faith
“it is impossible to please God well,
“for whoever approaches God
“must believe that he is
“and that he becomes the rewarder
of those earnestly seeking him.”
Clearly, to receive Jehovah’s blessing
and gain the reward of everlasting life,
we need to build and maintain faith.
At Romans 1:17,
quoting the prophet Habakkuk, Paul wrote:
“The righteous one will live
by reason of faith.”
With these words, Paul emphasized
that Jehovah will reward
all who show real faith.
Based on our faith in Jesus’ ransom,
Jehovah forgives our sins
and grants us a righteous standing
with him even now.
And during Armageddon,
Jehovah will protect God’s people
and then give them the opportunity
to live forever in Paradise.
That’s what we want for all of you.
Most of us here today
already have a large measure of faith,
and as Paul wrote
at 2 Corinthians 1:24:
“It is by your faith that you are standing.”
Reports from around the globe
testify to your genuine faith
and the good that Jehovah is accomplishing
through you
because of your faith.
We feel as Paul expressed
at Colossians 1:3, 4:
“We always thank God,
“the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,
“when we pray for you,
“since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus
and the love you have for all the holy ones.”
But constant pressure
from Satan and the demons,
the old world, and our own imperfections
can weaken and wear down our faith.
The purpose of this convention
is to strengthen that faith.
We’ll learn how to cultivate true faith,
how to exercise it in our daily lives,
and how to maintain it
during difficult times.
So please
pay close attention
to each part of the program.
As scriptures are read,
follow along in the Bible.
And may God’s Word empower you
to be a man, woman, or child of faith!
Thank you so much, Brother Jackson.
Well, let’s come back now
to the point we were discussing.
What is the power of faith?
Well, now, to open this discussion,
let’s open our Bibles
and let’s go to Matthew chapter 17
and let’s read together verses 19 and 20.
That’s Matthew 17:19, 20:
“Then the disciples came to Jesus privately
and said:
“‘Why could we not expel it?’
“He said to them:
‘Because of your little faith.
“‘For truly I say to you,
“‘if you have faith
the size of a mustard grain,
“‘you will say to this mountain,
“‘“Move from here to there,”
“‘and it will move,
and nothing will be impossible for you.’”
Wow!
Jesus said that faith is powerful.
He said:
“Nothing will be impossible for you.”
Well, just as Peter
because of his faith
was able to get out of the boat
and walk on the water,
our faith can enable us to do things
that from a human perspective
seem to be completely impossible.
Let’s consider six different things.
Here’s the first one:
Faith opens up the privilege
of being able to walk
with our wonderful, amazing God, Jehovah.
Now, what does that mean?
Well, the Bible says
that men of faith like Noah
“walked with the true God.”
But what does it mean when it says that?
Well, Noah followed
Jehovah’s commandments and instructions
so carefully
and Noah loved Jehovah so much
that it was just as though Noah and Jehovah
were walking down the street together
as the closest and most intimate of friends.
That is something that faith
made possible for Noah.
But brothers and sisters, here’s
the really wonderful and amazing thing:
That was true for Noah,
but it’s also true for you,
and it’s also true for me.
We too can experience what seems impossible
—to be actually walking
with our heavenly Father day by day.
That is the power of faith.
Let’s look at a second one:
Faith moves us to obey the commands of God
without hesitation.
Now, as an example, we think of Abraham.
He’s called in the scriptures
“the father of all those having faith.”
Now, how is Abraham an example?
Well, he was quick to obey Jehovah
even when Jehovah asked him to do things
that were very difficult, like leaving Ur
and offering up his only son.
Abraham was willing to obey
because of his faith.
But now, brothers, think
—think about what this makes possible today.
People who have been addicted
to drugs, to tobacco,
to alcohol, to gambling, to pornography;
people who have been living
immoral lifestyles of all sorts;
people who have said they would
never be able to give up those habits
—that they would never be able
to change their lifestyle—
what happened?
As they developed faith,
through their faith and through their desire
to please Jehovah,
they broke free from all of those things.
We have seen people like that.
You have seen them.
I have seen them.
We know that people like this
have conquered all of these bad things
because of their faith.
Maybe you are one of those people.
Brothers and sisters,
that is the real power of faith
—not something theoretical,
not something imagined,
but in action.
People experience that power
in their own lives.
Let’s go to the third one:
Faith in the fulfillment
of Jehovah’s promises
moves us to want to go out
and preach the good news of God’s Kingdom.
Well, now, let’s read
what the Scriptures say about this.
At 2 Corinthians 4:13,
it says there:
“Now because we have the same spirit of faith
“as that of which it is written:
“‘I exercised faith,
“therefore I spoke’;
“we too exercise faith
and therefore we speak.”
Well, what does it mean?
Without faith, without exercising faith
in the promises of God,
we would never ever be able to do
the preaching work.
In fact, maybe when you were first studying
the Bible with Jehovah’s Witnesses,
maybe you said something like this:
‘I’ll never go from door to door.
You’ll never see me walking down the street,
knocking on doors.’
But what happened?
As you grew in your faith,
you wanted to share
the things that you were learning
and you wanted to talk
about all the wonderful things
that you were hearing about Jehovah.
Yes, faith helps us conquer our fears.
It helps us overcome shyness.
It helps us overcome indifference
in the territory.
It helps us overcome opposition
or even government bans.
Hitler, Stalin,
the Soviet Union, and even Russia today
—all of them have said that they
would crush Jehovah’s Witnesses
and that they would put an end
to our preaching.
But what happened?
Our brothers and sisters kept on preaching
despite whatever opposition came,
and our brothers today
who are living
under similar circumstances under ban
continue preaching also.
They do not give up.
Why?
Why are they able to keep going?
Because of the power of faith.
Faith moves them to action
and to continue telling the good news,
no matter what the circumstances may be.
Let’s go on to the fourth point:
Our faith moves us to act in ways
that bring blessings to us.
Now, think about this:
Some people who saw and heard
the teaching of Jesus and his works
put faith in him.
They believed that Jesus
was able to heal them,
and so that faith led to blessings.
Well, in what way?
Well, sometimes when Jesus
healed individuals, what did he say?
He said: “Your faith has made you well.”
In other words, if those people
had not exercised faith in Jesus,
they would not have come to him
and they would never have experienced
the healing that he gave them.
What’s the point?
Today, we are not looking
to be physically healed
through our faith in Jesus,
but many of us have made major decisions
—made major changes in our lives—
in order to become disciples of Christ.
Perhaps we left promising careers;
perhaps we left fame;
perhaps we gave up higher education,
or whatever it may be.
But what is the promise
that Jesus made to all of us
who have made these decisions
based on faith?
At Mark 10:29, look what Jesus said:
“No one has left house
“or brothers or sisters
“or mother or father or children
“or fields for my sake
and for the sake of the good news
“who will not get 100 times more
“now in this period of time
“—houses, brothers, sisters,
“mothers, children, and fields,
“with persecutions—
and in the coming system of things,
everlasting life.”
What’s the point?
You see, we’ve made these decisions.
We may have walked away
from many things in the world,
but by putting faith in Christ Jesus,
what amazing blessings have come to us,
just like Jesus said
—“100 times more”
than what we have given up!
That is the power of faith.
Let’s look at number five:
Faith helps us to win our struggle
against the superhuman spirit forces.
Well, now, how so?
Let’s read together Ephesians 6
and verse 16.
At Ephesians 6:16,
it says: “Besides all of this,
“take up the large shield of faith,
“with which you will be able to extinguish
all the wicked one’s burning arrows.”
Well, now, what is the point?
Did you notice that here
in Ephesians chapter 6,
faith is compared to a “large shield”?
Just like a large shield
that covers most of the body,
faith in Jehovah God
and his promises for the future
can shield us from
—what does it say in verse 16?—
“all the wicked one’s burning arrows.”
We can be completely protected.
Well, what does that mean?
It means that through our faith,
we have the power
to get up and turn off that television.
We have the power to walk out
of that movie theater.
We have the power to unplug
that computer, if necessary,
to get rid of those temptations or bad ideas
that could motivate us to enter
into a course of wrongdoing.
It is no wonder that 1 Thessalonians 5:8
compares faith to a “breastplate”
that can protect our figurative heart
from temptation and from the power of sin.
That is real power.
But now, let’s go to our sixth point:
Faith moves us to trust
that our prayers to Jehovah God are heard
and that Jehovah will answer them
if they are in harmony with his will.
This is what Jesus said.
Will you read it with me?
It’s Mark 11:24.
Jesus said: “This is why I tell you,
“all the things you pray and ask for,
“have faith that you have received them,
and you will have them.”
Well, now, brothers, when we have that faith
that the things we are asking Jehovah,
he’s hearing us and he’s listening to us,
especially during these troubled times
—in the midst of this pandemic—
when we have many anxieties and concerns.
How wonderful that we can believe
that Jehovah God is hearing us
and that he is going to provide
an answer to us,
just exactly in harmony with what we need!
So after considering
these six different factors,
wouldn’t you agree with me
that faith is powerful?
It has real power
to make things that seem impossible to men
become realities for those
who have faith in Jehovah.
Well, how thankful we can be
that Jehovah is helping us
to develop this wonderful quality
through solid evidence,
through accurate knowledge,
and through his precious holy spirit!
Well, that brings us to that third question:
How can we build up our faith?
And maybe more specifically,
How is this convention
going to help us to build our faith?
Well, of course, the convention
is going to include many talks,
symposiums, interviews,
and we’re going to have
a two-part Bible drama.
So there is much to look forward to.
But maybe just for a few minutes,
would you open up your program,
perhaps on your device
like I’m using here today?
And let’s consider some of the highlights
that we can expect to see in our convention.
So you’ll notice that on day one,
the theme for the day is from Luke 17:5:
“Give us more faith.”
Would you like to strengthen
your relationship with Jehovah?
Well, pay attention
to the dramatic Bible reading.
That’s where we’re going to learn
about how faith
moved Noah to be able to obey Jehovah,
even though the things Jehovah
asked of him were very, very large.
Take notice of that audio drama.
And then in the afternoon—
Are you a person
that loves Jehovah’s creation?
Well, the second symposium of our convention,
“Use Creation to Build Your Faith,”
is going to show us how Jehovah’s love,
his wisdom, and his power
are reflected in all the beautiful things
that he made.
And it’s going to show us also
that Jehovah not only has the ability
but the desire
to fulfill his promises for the future.
And then how about this?
How strong is your faith?
Well, take notice of the final talk
on Friday afternoon.
That’s where we’re going to hear the talk
“‘Keep Testing Whether You Are in the Faith’
—How?”
That’ll give us an opportunity
to look at our own faith
and see just how strong it is.
Let’s go to day two.
There we see that the theme for the day
is going to be Jude 3:
“Put up a hard fight for the faith.”
Have you begun to use
our new study publication,
Enjoy Life Forever!?
Well, we’ll all want
to listen carefully to the talk
“Build Faith Using Enjoy Life Forever!”
That’s going to discuss
how we can use this new study publication
to reach the heart of our student
and also to help our student to build faith.
Within Jehovah’s organization,
we have many brothers and sisters
who have unbelieving mates,
we have many who are part
of single-parent families,
and we have many who are single.
The symposium entitled
“Successful Fighters for the Faith”
is going to show us what we can learn
from these faithful Christians.
Take note!
And then looking in the afternoon,
although we can’t travel right now,
we’re going to have the opportunity
to go on an around-the-world tour
because the video
How Our Brothers Are Showing Faith in . . .
is going to take us all around the world
and show us how our brothers
are manifesting faith
in many, many different parts
of this beautiful earth.
And then you are all in for an amazing treat
with Part I of the Bible drama
Daniel: A Lifetime of Faith.
Now, I think I can say confidently
that this is absolutely the best drama
that we have ever produced.
You are going to love it!
Well, the last talk on day two
is a serious one.
It’s going to contrast faith destroyers
with faith builders,
and it’s going to show us
how we can strengthen our trust
in Jehovah’s Word
and also in his organization.
Well, finally, on day three,
our theme is going to be Matthew 21:21:
“If you have faith . . . , it will happen.”
We’re going to look at what we can learn
from faithful women of God.
You’ll notice,
there is an eight-part symposium
that shows us how the women
featured in each talk showed faith
and also how we can imitate their faith.
And then in the afternoon,
we have the thrilling finale
of that Bible drama
Daniel: A Lifetime of Faith.
And finally, then, the convention
will conclude all too soon
with the very motivating and moving talk
“Become Powerful by Your Faith!”
Well, brothers, would you like to see
just a taste of what’s in store
and some of the videos
we’re going to be seeing?
Let’s watch.
I could tell from the doctor’s voice
that the news wasn’t good.
I just didn’t expect my health
to worsen so quickly.
If a gun is what I need to protect my family,
won’t Jehovah understand?
I knew how Mom felt about the holidays.
But
I also learned how Jehovah felt.
It was as if a veil had been lifted
from my eyes.
That was the moment
Jehovah introduced himself to me.
In my darkest times,
Jehovah’s words brought me comfort.
I knew these words
would build my faith.
“Trust in Jehovah
and do what is good.”
Well, doesn’t that whet your appetite
for what is coming at this convention?
Now, keep in mind that some of the videos
at the convention present real accounts,
but many others are just dramatizations.
Now, what does that mean?
Well, the dramatizations don’t portray
real people or real events,
but they depict situations
that help to teach us the truth.
Jehovah God loves and appreciates
men and women of faith
—men and women just like you.
He is determined to reward
men and women like that
with an amazing reward.
Would you read it with me?
Let’s look at John 6:40.
At John 6:40, it says:
“For this is the will of my Father,
“that everyone who recognizes the Son
“and exercises faith in him
“should have everlasting life,
and I will resurrect him on the last day.”
Those “[exercising] faith”
can be certain of receiving this reward.
At John 3:36, Jesus said:
“The one who exercises faith in the Son
has [has] everlasting life.”
So dear brothers and sisters,
as we begin this wonderful convention,
please be determined to take notes.
Be determined to meditate
on the things that you will hear
so that you may cultivate, maintain,
and strengthen your faith.
If you do, you too will become
powerful by faith
and receive the wonderful, amazing reward
of everlasting life!